@document.meta
title: Welcome to Norgolith
description: The monolithic static site generator for Neorg, built with Rust.
authors: [
  NTBBloodbath
]
categories: []
created: 2025-02-17T03:36:04-04:00
updated: 2025-02-17T03:36:04-04:00
layout: default
draft: false
version: 1.1.1
@end

* Welcome to Norgolith!
  @embed html
  <div class="flex items-center mt-2">
  @end
  +html.width 120
  +html.height 120
  .image /assets/norgolith.svg

  +html.class font-mono px-4
  Norgolith is a Rust-powered static site generator designed for
  {https://github.com/nvim-neorg/neorg}[Neorg] — built by Neorg enthusiasts, for Neorg enthusiasts.
  It gets out of your way by combining Rust's rock-solid foundations with opt-in validations and
  sane defaults, so you spend less time configuring and debugging, and spend more time creating
  appealing content.
  @embed html
  </div>
  @end

  > /*Precision meets simplicity*: Norgolith combines Rust's reliability with a community-driven
  design. We handle the config — you own the content./

  +html.class text-base-alt mt-12 lg:mt-14
  ___

** Key Features
   - *Built with Rust*: Extremely fast performance and type-safe pipelines, everything you need in a
     single binary with no external dependencies.
   - *Neorg-first*: Native support for Norg, powered by our in-house HTML conversion tool.
   - *Zero-config workflow*: Ship sites with sane defaults — just write Norg.
   - *Error-proof content*:
   -- Syntax validation via {https://github.com/nvim-neorg/rust-norg}[rust-norg].
   -- *Content schemas*: Opt-in metadata rules enforcement /before/ build time.
   - *Easy to use*: Everything is designed to be as intuitive as possible, including the error
     messages!

** Getting Started
   Do you want to get started? Check out the {:/docs:}[documentation]!

** Support
   - Need help? {https://discord.gg/T6EgTAX7ht}[Join the Neorg Discord community]!
   - Found an issue? {https://github.com/NTBBloodbath/norgolith/issues/new}[Report it on GitHub].

** Contributing
   Norgolith is open-source! {:/docs/contributing:}[Join us] to improve documentation, fix bugs, or
   add features.
