@document.meta
title: Plugins
description: Extend Norgolith with plugins
authors: [
  NTBBloodbath
]
categories: [
  docs
]
created: 2026-06-28T00:00:00-04:00
updated: 2026-06-28T00:00:00-04:00
draft: false
layout: docs
version: 1.0.0
@end

Norgolith has a plugin system that lets you extend the build process. Plugins are shared libraries
written in Rust that hook into different stages of the build pipeline. They can transform content,
inject HTML, generate files, and more.

This guide explains how plugins work, how to install them, and how to write your own.

** How Plugins Work

A plugin is a shared library (`.so`, `.dylib`, or `.dll`) with a `plugin.toml` manifest. When you
run `lith build`, Norgolith loads all plugins from the `plugins/` directory, checks their manifests,
and calls their hook functions at the right time in the build process.

The build pipeline runs in this order:

@code bash
Norg files -> [pre_build] -> parse + convert to HTML -> [post_convert]
           -> Tera template -> [post_render] -> write to public/ -> [post_build]
@end

Each plugin can implement one or more of these four hooks. The hooks receive JSON input with the
current page data, and return modified HTML or an error.

** Quick Start

Let's walk through creating a simple plugin that adds a watermark to every page.

*** Scaffold the plugin

Run the `lith plugin new` command to create the project structure:

@code bash
lith plugin new watermark
@end

This creates a `plugins/watermark/` directory with three files:

@code bash
plugins/watermark/
+-- plugin.toml    # Plugin manifest
+-- Cargo.toml     # Rust package config
+-- src/lib.rs     # Your code goes here
@end

*** Edit the hook

Open `plugins/watermark/src/lib.rs` and replace its contents with:

@code rust
use norgolith_plugin_sdk::*;

register_plugin!("watermark", "0.1.0",
    hooks: [post_render: add_watermark]
);

fn add_watermark(json: serde_json::Value) -> Result<Option<String>, String> {
    let ctx: TransformContext = serde_json::from_value(json)
        .map_err(|e| e.to_string())?;

    let watermark = "<!-- Generated by Norgolith -->";
    Ok(Some(format!("{}\n{}", ctx.html, watermark)))
}
@end

*** Build and install

Build the plugin in release mode, then install it:

@code bash
cd plugins/watermark
cargo build --release
cd ../..
lith plugin install plugins/watermark
@end

*** Test it

Run `lith build` and check the output. Every page will now have the comment at the end.

** Plugin Manifest

Every plugin needs a `plugin.toml` file next to its shared library. Here is the full format:

@code toml
[plugin]
name = "my-plugin"
version = "0.1.0"
norgolith = ">=0.4.0"
abi = 1

[hooks]
pre_build = false
post_convert = false
post_render = true
post_build = false

[capabilities]
filesystem = "none"
network = false

timeout_ms = 10000
priority = 100
@end

*** \[plugin\] section

- `name`: must match the name you pass to `register_plugin!` in your Rust code
- `version`: semantic version for your plugin
- `norgolith`: semver requirement for the Norgolith version this plugin supports (e.g. `>=0.4.0`)
- `abi`: must be `1`. This is the plugin ABI version and must match the core

*** \[hooks\] section

Set each hook to `true` if your plugin implements it:

- `pre_build`: runs before any content is processed
- `post_convert`: runs after Norg-to-HTML conversion, before Tera templating
- `post_render`: runs after Tera layout is applied, before writing to disk
- `post_build`: runs after all pages are written

*** \[capabilities\] section

Declare what your plugin needs:

- `filesystem`: `"none"`, `"read"`, `"write"`, or `"read-write"`
- `network`: `true` or `false`

@embed html
<blockquote style="border-color: var(--color-yellow)">
    <span style="color: var(--color-yellow)" class="flex items-center">
    <i class="text-2xl ti ti-message-exclamation mr-1"></i>
    <strong class="text-xl">Note</strong>
    </span>
@end

These are declarations only. Norgolith currently does not enforce filesystem or network restrictions
at runtime. Landlock sandboxing on Linux restricts filesystem access to the site directory.
@embed html
</blockquote>
@end

*** Other fields

- `timeout_ms`: maximum time in milliseconds for a single hook call (default: 10000)
- `priority`: execution order when multiple plugins are installed. Lower numbers run first (default:
  100)

** Hook Reference

*** pre_build

Runs once before any content is processed. Receives the full site configuration as JSON. Use this to
initialize state, load external data, or validate the environment.

@code rust
fn init(json: serde_json::Value) -> Result<Option<String>, String> {
    let ctx: PreBuildContext = serde_json::from_value(json)
        .map_err(|e| e.to_string())?;

    // ctx.site_config  -> full site config as JSON
    // ctx.pages_dir    -> path to content/ directory
    // ctx.output_dir   -> path to public/ directory

    Ok(None)  // Return Ok(None) if you have nothing to report
}
@end

*** post_convert

Runs after each page is converted from Norg to HTML, but before Tera templating. This is where you
transform the page content. The input is an HTML fragment (just the body content, no layout).

@code rust
fn transform(json: serde_json::Value) -> Result<Option<String>, String> {
    let ctx: TransformContext = serde_json::from_value(json)
        .map_err(|e| e.to_string())?;

    // ctx.html       -> the HTML content
    // ctx.metadata   -> page metadata as JSON (title, date, tags, etc.)
    // ctx.rel_path   -> relative path (e.g. "posts/hello.norg")

    // Return the modified HTML
    Ok(Some(ctx.html.replace("<p>", "<p class=\"lead\">")))
}
@end

*** post_render

Runs after Tera layout is applied. The input is the complete HTML page (including `<!DOCTYPE>`,
`<head>`, etc.). Use this to inject elements into `<head>` or modify the final page.

@code rust
fn inject(json: serde_json::Value) -> Result<Option<String>, String> {
    let ctx: TransformContext = serde_json::from_value(json)
        .map_err(|e| e.to_string())?;

    // Inject before </head>
    if let Some(pos) = ctx.html.find("</head>") {
        let tag = r#"<link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/my-plugin.css" />"#;
        let result = format!("{}{}\n{}", &ctx.html[..pos], tag, &ctx.html[pos..]);
        return Ok(Some(result));
    }

    Ok(None)
}
@end

*** post_build

Runs once after all pages are written to disk. Use this to generate extra files or clean up.

@code rust
fn finalize(json: serde_json::Value) -> Result<Option<String>, String> {
    let ctx: PostBuildContext = serde_json::from_value(json)
        .map_err(|e| e.to_string())?;

    // Generate a file in the output directory
    let path = std::path::Path::new(&ctx.output_dir).join("robots.txt");
    std::fs::write(&path, "User-agent: *\nAllow: /").ok();

    Ok(None)
}
@end

** CLI Commands

*** lith plugin new \<name\>

Create a new plugin project with the basic structure.

@code bash
lith plugin new my-plugin
@end

*** lith plugin install \<path\>

Build a plugin from source and install it into your site's `plugins/` directory.

@code bash
lith plugin install plugins/my-plugin
@end

*** lith plugin list

Show all installed plugins with their name, version, hooks, priority, and status.

@code bash
lith plugin list
@end

*** lith plugin uninstall \<name\>

Remove an installed plugin.

@code bash
lith plugin uninstall my-plugin
@end

** Plugin Ordering

When you have multiple plugins installed, they run in the order specified by the `priority` field in
`plugin.toml`. Lower numbers run first.

For example, if you have two plugins:

@code toml
# Plugin A: priority 50
priority = 50

# Plugin B: priority 100
priority = 100
@end

Plugin A's hooks run before Plugin B's hooks. The default priority is 100 if you don't specify one.

** Security

Plugins run inside the Norgolith process. On Linux, Landlock restricts filesystem access to the site
directory and cache directory. Plugins cannot read or write files outside these paths.

@embed html
<blockquote style="border-color: var(--color-yellow)">
  <span style="color: var(--color-yellow)" class="flex items-center">
    <i class="text-2xl ti ti-message-exclamation mr-1"></i>
    <strong class="text-xl">Known Limitation</strong>
  </span>
@end

Network restrictions are not enforced right now. The `network` field in `plugin.toml` is a
declaration only. Plugins can open network connections regardless of this setting.

@embed html
</blockquote>
@end

** Troubleshooting

*** Plugin not loading

- Check that `plugin.toml` exists next to the `.so` file
- Make sure the `abi` field in `plugin.toml` matches the current Norgolith version
- Check the build output for warnings about skipped plugins

*** Plugin hook not running

- Verify that the hook is set to `true` in `plugin.toml`
- Check that your `register_plugin!` macro includes the hook name

*** Build is slow with plugins

- Use the `priority` field to order plugins efficiently
- Check the build output for per-plugin timing information
- Consider whether your plugin needs to run on every page

*** Error: "ABI mismatch"

The plugin was compiled against a different ABI version. Rebuild the plugin from source with the
current Norgolith SDK.

*** Error: "Version mismatch"

The plugin requires a different Norgolith version. Check the `norgolith` field in `plugin.toml` and
update it if needed, or install a compatible version of the plugin.

** Learn More

- {/sdk/}[Plugin SDK on crates.io] - API reference for plugin developers
- {https://github.com/NTBBloodbath/norgolith}[Norgolith repository] - source code and issue tracker

{:/docs/contributing:}[Next: Contributing ->]
