@document.meta
title: Documentation
description: Norgolith documentation
authors: [
  NTBBloodbath
]
categories: [
  docs
]
created: 2025-03-10T14:00:32-04:00
updated: 2025-03-10T14:00:32-04:00
draft: false
layout: docs
version: 1.1.1
@end

+html.class text-xl
*Welcome to the Norgolith documentation page!*

Norgolith is the monolithic {https://github.com/nvim-neorg/norg-specs}[Norg] static site generator.
Transform your Norg content into high-performance websites with /opt-in/ validation and ease!

** Key Features
   - *Norg-first workflow*: write in Norg, publish as HTML.
   - *Real-time previews*: development server with full live reload capabilities.
   - *Validation engine*: catch errors during development to avoid them from reaching your
     production site!
   -- *Content Schemas*: Opt-in metadata structure enforcement.
   - *Simple yet powerful theme system*: semver-enforced site appearances that can be installed and
     customized with ease.

** Project Philosophy
   - *Precision*: Leverage Rust's type safety and content validation.
   - *Extensibility*: Plugin-ready architecture (WIP).
   - *Community-driven*: Built with open collaboration and feedback from the community! 💜

** Contributing
   Want to contribute with the project? Check out the {./docs/contributing}[Contributing] section!

** Getting started
   - {./docs/installation}[Installation]
   - {./docs/getting-started}[Quick Start]
   - {./docs/configuration}[Configuration Reference]
   - {./docs/commands}[Commands Reference]
   - {./docs/templating}[Templating]
   - {./docs/content-schemas}[Content Schemas]
